Port MASTG-TEST-0092: Testing Simulator checks (iOS) (by @Vulnit) (#3737)
OWASP/mastg: knowledge/ios/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASTG-KNOW-0088.md

---
masvs_category: MASVS-RESILIENCE
platform: ios

> title: Simulator Detection

Reviewer: I like that you're already using this term in the tests. I think we should go with this given the circumstances.

```suggestion
title: Virtual Device Detection
```

> title: Simulator Detection

Author: Virtual devices are the solutions that really "emulate" the iOS arm architecture and work with the apps downloaded from the app store. I didn't like the "emulator" word, so I made the difference between the iOS Simulator and a virtual device, with no mentions to emulation. @MASTG-KNOW-009x talks about virtual devices, the test and demo are for virtual devices,  but we leave this KNOW file to have a clear difference between iOS Simulator and a virtual device (the real security threat from a reversing perspective). Is that ok?

---

## Overview

In the context of anti-reversing, the goal of emulator detection is to increase the difficulty of running the app on a non-physical device, which impedes some tools and techniques reverse engineers like to use. This increased difficulty forces the reverse engineer to defeat these or utilize the physical device, thereby barring the access required for large-scale device analysis.

> Apple's operating system provides a software called "Simulator", shipped with XCode. This simulator mimics an iOS device, but does not try to emulate its architecture, and is not an iOS virtual machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apple's operating system provides a software called "Simulator", shipped with Xcode. This simulator mimics an iOS device, but does not try to emulate its architecture, and is not an iOS virtual machine.
```

> At this moment, there is not an iOS "emulator" available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this moment, there is no iOS emulator available.
```

But you mentioned Corellium in the other page? Also vphone.
Maybe we should say: "At this moment, there is no official iOS emulator available"

Author: Corellium and VPhone are virtual devices; corellium claims they are not emulators.

The idea is to avoid using the "emulator" word and split between virtual devices and the iOS Simulator. For iOS, using the "emulator" word can fit inbetween those two worlds, so I have removed it, leaving only Simulator and Virtual Device.

As discussed in the section [Testing on the iOS Simulator](../../../Document/0x06b-iOS-Security-Testing.md#testing-on-the-ios-simulator "Testing on the iOS Simulator") in the basic security testing chapter, simulator binaries are compiled to macOS operating system code instead of iOS operating system code (independently of the architecture).

Therefore, apps from app store (or compiled for physical devices) do not need to detect the presence of an iOS Simulator as they can't be installed or executed in such platform.

## Techniques

Although apps from App Store cannot be executed in an iOS Simulator, there are several indicators that can be used by the app to know if the device in question is an iOS Simulator.

### Runtime environment check

> The following indicator uses the [runtime environment](/https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/processinfo/environment) process information to check if the environment variable "SIMULATOR_DEVICE_NAME" has been set (this variable is set by the iOS Simulator when spawning the app process):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following indicator uses the [runtime environment](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/processinfo/environment) process information to check if the environment variable "SIMULATOR_DEVICE_NAME" has been set (this variable is set by the iOS Simulator when spawning the app process):
```
